---
layout: post
title: "Art for old people"
date: 2024-02-20 12:01:11 -0500
categories: writing
published: false
---

I can say opinions on this blog. I disagree with (rip) Mark Fisher's claim that old people often make: *There is nothing new or original happening with art*.

I've been getting older. 32, not old at all, but no longer youth and no longer a young person involved with "youth culture" but instead I'm an adult person who exists to consume it. I listen to music and feel weird when I enjoy a 19 year old's hyperpop project. And that weird feeling of me being an old person is a a feeling that I suspect is universal. You become what was new when you were the youth, and then you grow older and don't like the way you feel when you hear the new stuff. You might not examine this weird feeling, who knows, it could be many things, for me it's partly sadness that I'm no longer young, and you might think "this is not good" and then you might say things like, "*There is no new or original art anymore*."

Ok old guy. That's not a new or original thought, either. Did you not hear Fredric Jameson? Oh shit I'm talking about stuff I'm not qualified to talk about. I'm not trying to contend with Mark Fisher right now. Mark Fisher would beat me up on his blog, yes I heard Jameson you fool. Actually he would have no idea that I wrote this. I would be like a gnat trying to be friends with the horse, but I'd be stuck flying around the barn because I'm too dumb to find the horse.

What I'm saying is, if you grow older and find yourself talking shit about art created by young people, delete that. Unless you're Mark Fisher.

I will probably break this rule within the year but I'll try not to.
