---
layout: post
title: "Walk"
date: 2024-02-21 12:01:11 -0500
categories: writing
---

Everyday my dog Okie[^1] makes me smile. Sometimes I dream about working with dogs. Somehow use their intelligence to help me do things on a farm, occasionally I'll obsessively watch horse loggers do their job on YouTube, got real jealous the other day when I saw a video of Jane Goodall working with a monkey, I get suggested tons of animal content on Instagram. Dunno if this is true, I've never read him, but apparently, [“Nietzsche said the way to figure out what you really want is to be honest and listen to your envy”](https://twitter.com/deankissick/status/1758245954212225258) and I envy a lot of things so I guess I want a lot. It would be cool to work more directly with animals but I have zero science background, no horse or logging experience, no legitimate dog training experience, etc.

I get a similar enjoyment from the relationships with my pets. Reading about dogs is boring[^2] to me so this post is more about a discovery I had through my dog, which I guess is what most dog writing is ultimately about, so if you find this boring then I won't be offended if you close this web page.

Me and Okie go on daily walks. I ask him, "Do you wanna go on a walk?" and this rouses him. We used to walk for about 30 minutes (his typical mile pace), but over time the walks became longer. This is because Okie doesn't want to go home. We'll get to one of the corners that turn us back home and he'll pull the other way. Sometimes we'll make him go home but more often we choose his route.

Okie lives to wander around the town and smell, hoping to play with another dog on the sidewalk or greet a stranger. He smells more than any dog I've ever known or seen. Swear to God my dog smells more than your dog. We just stood at the corner by my house and the wind was blowing hard while he smelled it and tried to pull us in that direction. I used to be frustrated by this because I wanted to hurry back home, but now I try to exist in the moment and let him set the pace and take us where he wants to go. I believe that the walk is the highlight of Okie's day and this has influenced me to let the walks go longer. It's wrong to deprive him of that part of his life, therefore we go on longer walks so that he has the opportunity to live a good life.

The walk has become the highlight of my day, too. Now this is what I look forward to each day. An hour long walk where I go out in the cold and all the cliched poetic experiences of being out in the world with no screen and looking at the surroundings and feeling the wind on my face and mindfulness etc.

It makes me wonder: what would life look like if the daily walk was the main part of my day? It's already a cornerstone, but what if my day existed solely to go on a long walk? That seems like a nice way to live.

The writer and activist Mark Baumer did this, but in his own way. He is very inspiring. I would miss my dog and cat and Zoe if I did something like that, though.

Now I'm thinking about how Mark Baumer inspires me and he doesn't elict the feeling of envy: maybe Nietzsche was wrong about that, though there is some sense in using envy to learn things about yourself.

---
[^1]: Short for "Okie Dokie" because we thought it was cute and kinda funny to name a puppy that, which, initially, we did not realize "Okie" was a slur for white Oklahomans who moved to California until my neighbor reminded me of the Merle Haggard song (from an album I used to listen to a lot, so this was briefly embarrassing to not realize), which it's kind of funny we accidentally named him a slur against white people, especially since we're white and the dog is a big white dog and it's funny how white people sometimes name things without realizing their cultural mistakes, because laughing at yourself is a good way to deal with things like that as long as it's a harmless mistake, but luckily we made the mistake with our ~own culture.
[^2]: *Merle's Door: Lessons from a Freethinking Dog* is the only dog book that has moved me. Taught me a lot and made me even more appreciative for my relationship with Okie. I am very envious of that writer's life, back when a writer could afford to live near Jackson Hole by writing magazine articles about nature, dogs, hunting, and fishing.
